>> Jem Young: But I pinged twitter.com,
and I didn't ping an IP address.
And the way that works is another set of
protocols, there's a lot of protocols.
When you look at the Internet and
the people that run the Internet and
there are people that run the Internet or
run the switches and connections and
backbones.
Again, it's this trust system and
one of those things is the DNS system.
DNS is run by I wanna say it's ICANN
Internet, I forgot what ICANN stands for.
It stands for something, don't worry,
but they control domain names.
When you buy domain name, you actually
pay a little bit of fee $0.60 or
maybe more maybe less to ICANN and
they help create this domain name system.
And what it is is just,
it's an Internet phone book.
But that's oversimplifying it.
It's actually an intelligent
Internet phone book, just says hey,
I want to go to twitter.com.
It's not necessarily routing you
directly to the servers in San Francisco
because that would be really slow.
There's things called data
centers all around the world,
which is documented in a second.
But DNS says, what's the closest
server that this resolves to?
So all it does is it maps
domain names to IP addresses.
And we need them because I can't
remember my own IP address,
I can't remember anybody's IP address,
I can barely remember my own phone number.
The DNS system,
you've probably heard of it because again,
this is how the Internet works.
This is how it became accessible.
We're not all using shells and
using telnet and
all these command line tools to
download web pages, we're using GUIs.
Domain name system is just a way of making
the Internet accessible for more people.
And you probably all see or
not you probably,
I guarantee you've seen domains and domain
is something like frontendmasters.com,
jemyoung.com, that's called your domain.
The dot com, dot biz,
dot net, dot anything,
that's the top level domain, it's the TLD.
TLDs are owned by specific companies,
entities or countries.
You know what my least favorite TLD is?
Dot biz.
You know, dot b-i-z.
It just seems like if I
see something dot biz,
no offense to anybody with a dot biz TLD,
it just seems like a scam.
If it's dot biz, it's like wow.
There's an [INAUDIBLE] that wants
to give money instead of dot biz.
Wow, no, I'm kidding.
I'm really not, don't use dot biz.
And over the years,
if you haven't noticed,
all the good dot coms are taken,
which is not necessarily true.
You just have to get really,
really creative.
Remember that phase a couple
of years ago with the dot lys?
It was like bitly, fastly, that was
like the hot new thing, like the dot li.
I want to say dot lyzone
by some country somewhere.
I don't remember, you can look it up.
There's dot io, which is really expensive.
I wanna say it's Micronesia
that owns that country, but
almost every country has
their own top level domain.
So you can say, again, dmx.ru,
dmx is the Google of Russia,
dot ru is Russia, cn is China.
But largely dot com is still
kind of the domain that really
wants to have because it's the OG domains,
the first one, or one of the originals.
There's also.dot net, there's dot org,
but generally dot orgs,
it used to be you couldn't get one
without being like a nonprofit status or
something like that, or university.
But they since added dot edu,
which a lot of your colleges or
universities, things
like that have a dot edu.
But now there's a whole bunch of top level
domains, because companies are like well,
how come I can't have my own TLD and
I CANNs like, okay,
we'll make some new ones for you.
So now there's dot Google there's dot dev,
there's dot party,
my favorite domain name.
Just lots of top level domains, so
the good thing is if you need a website
today and you don't have one.
You're gonna have one by the end of the
day but also you could use whatever TLD
you want except for dot biz, I'm telling
you don't use dot biz, this is a bad idea.
A subdomain would be the blog or
tests or dev dot something.
That's what's known as a sub domain.
And that just means it still
routes to the main domain, but
it's just probably
a different part of the site.
Now, can anybody tell me why I would
use a sub domain versus a path?
And a path would be genuine com
slash about or about who am I or
something like that.
Yes, Sam.
>> Speaker 2: If you want to have
more than one actual separate server.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, exactly, right.
>> Speaker 2: It allows you to partition
your data more effectively prevents cross
site scripting, stuff like that.
>> Jem Young: Yeah,
you're thinking at a really good level.
For users, the subdomain,
it just indicates,
it's a different site generally.
So blog.jemyoung.com looks completely
different from jemyoung.com.
And I'm not pimping my own website,
it's pretty poor, I don't maintain it,
I think it's running.
I don't even know if it's running
half the time because you know.
>> Speaker 3: It's running but
your last post was five years ago.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, don't judge me.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jem Young: Don't judge me.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Jem Young: I thought this was
a judgment free zone.
I thought hey, I'm going to become
internet famous and start doing a blog.
And then I ran out of steam really fast of
off that, I don't remember my last post is
on probably hashing or
something like that so important.
But it just tells the user that you're at
a completely different part of the site,
and its affiliated with the site, but it's
probably a different application entirely.
First the path, blog.jemyoung.com slash
about, which is yeah, you're part of
the site and you're just on a different
route, a different page on the main site.
And because of DNS system,
I can map jemyoung.com, the 23.23.185.61.
So rather than remember that every
single time, I can just type that in and
the DNS resolvers figure that out.
How do they figure that out?
More servers.
There are a lot of servers.
The Internet is built on servers and
trusts and nodes and things like that.
But there's idea called a name server.
And the name server is the actual
entity that keeps that mapping.
So whenever you buy a new domain
from our web host, so name sheep or
Go Daddy or Google and
one of the big ones.
They all have name servers.
And that just says hey,
this person just bought this domain.
And it's probably not going anywhere.
But if you need to look it up,
I know exactly where that is.
And actually, I'll talk about
that a second with packets.
But names are the thing that
we probably don't know exist.
We're going to modify one today just
because we're going to use it to point
from our hosts to our
server at some point.
But it's good to know
that name servers exists.
They essentially Are they the record
keepers of the internet if you're trying
to type them domain name